# Skynet v TravisCI

## TravisCI Overview
TravisCI is a web-based service for running a continuous integration system. It is free for open source projects, and provides servers for builds to be run. By connecting a GitHub repository to TravisCI and including a config file to indicate how and what to build one can easily and quickly set up a CI system for a project.

## Skynet Overview
Skynet is the GE Appliances continuous integration system. It acts as an interface for a Jenkins instance. It provides, among other things an easier way to maintain configurations and conduct parallel builds. Jenkins is an open source automation platform, that can be deployed on a server and connected to GitHub hooks to build and test upon various triggers.

## Main Comparison Points
Discussion of the main points for comparison is followed by a weighted decision matrix and the results of the comparison.
### Price
The main focus of most companies is to maximize revenue by reducing costs and maximizing profits. While a continuous integration system does contribute to the quality of software produced and the speed at which it is produced, it does not directly provide revenue. Therefore the only monetary factor that will be evaluated is a direct comparison of the cost that each system incurs. According to the TravisCI website, a monthly price of $489 provides 10 concurrent jobs, unlimited build minutes, unlimited repositories, and unlimited collaborators. Larger plans are available but prices for those are not listed.
Skynet is based on the open source system Jenkins, and as such is free to download and deploy. However, unlike TravisCI, Skynet requires that the user maintain their own build servers. This results in two increased costs over Travis. First, maintaining a system of CI build servers can be a significant task which could require some or all of the focus of an individual, potentially more than one depending on the size of the system. Second, either server space needs to be rented to run the system or machines need to be bought and maintained. Given that the machine purchase would be a fixed cost, it is not as significant as the roughly $5800 per year that TravisCI would cost for only 10 concurrent builds at a time.

### Flexibility
Given the multiplatform nature of our business it is imperative that any system we choose should allow building and testing on multiple operating systems and with multiple languages. TravisCI natively supports Windows and MacOS, and can also run 31 of the most common languages. Skynet, being powered by Jenkins, can be used with all operating systems and while it natively supports fewer languages than TravisCI, through plugins this can be extended. These plugins are one of the major advantages of Jenkins overall. For example, Skynet uses the Job-DSL plugin to generate jobs from a lua config file and to allow for easier configuration of the system. Furthermore, the fact that Skynet is deployed on servers that can be accessed and managed by our own engineers means that more control over the build system exists. While TravisCI allows for a wide range of configuration options, the fact that Skynet is locally run, extensible, and open source, means it is the clear victor in flexibility.

### Speed
The speed at which the system processes jobs is moderately important. Reducing build time can greatly increase the overall effectiveness of a team, but a marginal advantage in speed is not of ultimate importance in picking a continuous integration system. The speed of a system can be broken down into how fast an individual build takes and how many jobs can be processed at one time. In general the speed at which a project is built is dependent more on the machine it is built on and the process by which it is built than the overarching system directing the builds. TravisCI and Skynet are likely nearly equals when it comes to machine quality, however given that Travis is a web service, its machines will experience more traffic and are more likely to be occupied with other jobs than the self-managed servers Skynet runs on. Further, according to the TravisCI documentation each environment comes with gcc, clang, and the core GNU build toolchain. This means that if one wants to take advantage of a faster or unique compiler, Skynet would be a better option given that complete control over the build environment is possible. The largest plan that TravisCI advertises allows 10 concurrent builds. More are possible but would have to be negotiated with the sales department at TravisCI. Skynet can run as many concurrent jobs as there are slaves in the system, which means that more can be added for only the cost of the machine itself. Because of this feature, Skynet can more rapidly accommodate the specific needs of a company.

### Ease Of Use
Given that continuous integration is a new concept to our company, the ease with which a system can be deployed, maintained, and understood is a relevant comparison point. Travis CI provides a good amount of documentation on their system, with independent third parties providing a fair amount of examples and support through blogs and public forums. Further, being an actual company, there are individuals whose job it is to provide support to their customers. However, since Jenkins is an open source project there is significantly more discussion about the inner workings of the system which can be extremely helpful in understanding how to implement it. Also, since at the time of this writing there are 656 contributors to Jenkins on GitHub, it is likely that any question that arises could be answered by an individual who worked on the system itself. Skynet provides a wide variety of examples and documentation on how to set up builds on the system, but much less on how to set up the system itself. As far as ease of deployment Travis CI surpasses Skynet significantly. A build can be set up in a very short time requiring only a connected GitHub repository and a configuration file. Requiring servers to be acquired and software to be deployed onto the machines, Skynet's set up could take a significant period.

|           |  Metric  | Price | Flexibility | Speed | Ease Of Use |     |
|-----------|----------|-------|-------------|-------|-------------|-----|
| **System**|**Weight**|  0.8  | 0.6         | 0.4   | 0.4         | Sum |
| Skynet    |          | 4     | 9           | 7     | 5           | 13.4|
| Travis CI |          | 3     | 5           | 5     | 8           | 10.6|

## Conclusion
While Travis CI surpasses Skynet in its ease of use, and the two are nearly tied on price, it is ultimately Skynet's flexibility that makes it my recommendation for a CI system. However, this is contingent on the given circumstances of our company, and for other companies or projects this may not be the correct choice. Skynet does require substantially more monitoring but this leads to an ultimately deeper control over your build system.
